[Music]
the winds on neptune reach the speeds of
1600 miles per hour
that's three times faster than a
commercial airplane
temperatures at the moon's south pole
reach
minus 397 degrees fahrenheit
which just might be the coldest in the
entire solar system
saturn is less dense than water so if it
were thrown into a giant pool
it would float jupiter's moon
europa is covered in a thick layer of
ice but
underneath it is a vast ocean of water
measuring up to 100 miles deep
water ice was previously thought to be
rare and only common for earth
but it can in fact be found all over the
solar system
even on mercury and the moon
saturn's magnificent rings are a belt of
space debris
that formed after one of its moons fell
apart
jupiter neptune and uranus also have
rings
although not as splendidly as saturn's
and even some asteroids have them too
there are eight confirmed planets in the
solar system
but evidence shows there can be a ninth
we just
haven't discovered it yet organic matter
could have been brought to earth by
comets since it has been found on
several of them
saturn also has a never-ending storm
just like jupiter
but it's also peculiar for its shape it
has six
distinct sides mercury and venus are the
only planets in the solar system
that have no known moons
jupiter has 79 known moons orbiting it
the largest of which is ganymede and
it's bigger than mercury
it was thought that the milky way is a
belt before
but now we know it's a spiral galaxy
footprints on the moon can't disappear
because there's no wind to blow them off
the surface
there's a theoretical possibility of a
white hole
the reverse of a black hole nothing can
enter it from outside
but light and matter can escape from
within it
triton a neptune's moon orbits the
planet in a backwards motion
it's the only moon that does so and
nobody knows why although there are
trillions of stars in space
we can only see a tiny fraction of them
in the sky
cheron pluto's moon is half the size of
its planet
which is why pluto orbits a bit around a
spot
outside its own axis all the objects in
space including planets interstellar
dust
and whole galaxies comprise just about
four percent of the universe
the rest is dark matter and dark energy
that can't be seen
and isn't fully understood
tres 2b is a planet where night never
ends
and it's not your regular night with
stars shining in the beautiful skies
here it's pitch dark and scorching high
tres 2b
is a gas giant roughly one and a half
times more massive than jupiter
and its surface absorbs light better
than charcoal
it might also have a faint dark red glow
because of its burning air
which is as hot as fresh lava lovely
in the star system of 55 cancri there
are five planets
four of which are gas giants similar to
jupiter and saturn
but the fifth one or rather the first
because it's closest to the star
is different in a most horrible way 55
cancri e is so close to its sun that
half the planet's surface is a literal
ocean of molten lava
the other half is in eternal darkness
because it never sees the sun
the planet is always turned to its star
on one side
and between the scorching and the dark
there's the twilight zone
a thin strip of gloomy nothingness
hd189377b
well i'm not going to say that again is
the only exoplanet in the orbit of its
star
and at first glance it looks quite
pretty blue and white swirls making up
wondrous patterns on the surface
but these pleasant colors actually come
from hard silicate particles
in the planet's atmosphere which means
it rains
glass here but the worst is that winds
reach the speed of
5 400 miles per hour or almost
mach 7. well for comparison
the fastest wind speed on earth was 254
miles per hour
over 20 times less thus the glass
falling from the sky travels
horizontally at hypersonic speeds
shredding everything in its path
the next system whose name i won't even
try to pronounce um
this one has three exoplanets which are
all being slowly destroyed by their own
star
it happens because that star is not
irregular it's a pulsar
a rapidly spinning core of an exploded
star
it creates powerful electromagnetic
pulses in several directions
while rotating at several thousand times
per second
as a result the planets orbiting this
deceased star
are slowly being eaten away and will
eventually disappear
entirely kepler-70
is a hot blue dwarf star that exploded
into a red giant
some 18 million years ago at the time it
was orbited by at least two planets
the closer of which was a jupiter-like
gas giant
its name was kepler-70b and it still
exists
but the overgrown star consumed it and
transformed it into a blazing hot rocky
world
right now it's one of the hottest
planets ever discovered its temperature
is higher than the surface of our
sun it was lucky to survive spending
time
inside the star but it's evaporating now
and will probably be no more in the near
future
there are six mars exploration missions
on or around
the red planet at the moment does that
mean that mars is inhabited by robots
the little green men aren't saying
if the sun was the size of a front door
our planet would be the size of a nickel
in other words the sun could fit more
than 1 million earths
moon rocks have a super slow erosion
rate
about 0.04 inches for every 1 million
years
that's why the apollo astronauts
footprints left on the moon
are likely to stay there for 10 to 100
million years
jupiter's moon eo is four and a half
billion years old
almost as old as the planet itself it's
one of the very few bodies in the solar
system with active volcanoes
and these volcanoes are powerful enough
to produce spectacular views
that are later captured by earth's
telescopes oh
by the way eo is named after a legendary
maiden
who is loved by the greek god zeus in
the myth
zeus turned her into a heifer in an
attempt to hide her from his jealous
wife hera
wow so the cow did jump over the moon
oh i think we could use some more
cowbell
okay enough of the cows back to space
a neutron star gets born after a
supernova collapses
after birth it rotates extremely fast
about 60 times
per second but this rate can sometimes
grow up to 600 times per second
makes me dizzy space isn't supposed to
be black
there are stars everywhere shouldn't
they light everything up around
you don't see stars wherever you look
because some of them haven't existed
long enough for their light to reach
earth
another one of saturn's moons iapetus
has a unique
two-tone coloring the difference between
the satellite's two hemispheres is
impressive
one of them is light and the other is
eerily dark
scientists haven't figured out this
mystery yet
all of the planets of the solar system
would fit between earth and the moon
with some space left yes there's
lots of space in space saturn isn't the
only planet that has rings
gas giants uranus neptune and jupiter
have rings of their own
but they are thin and almost impossible
to see
nasa can convert plasma waves radio
waves
and magnetic fields into audio tracks
and
listen to what's happening in space they
record all kinds of intriguing sounds
from beeps to ambulance like howls
at the same time space itself is an
eerily silent place
there are some sound waves and
vibrations but people can't perceive
them
the star's core takes up to 25 of its
entire radius
inside gravitational forces create
incredible temperatures and pressure
which makes hydrogen fuse into helium
this layer has a temperature
of 27 million degrees fahrenheit give or
take
all that energy moves to a zone called
radiative
it takes on average 170 000 years
for the energy to get all the way from
the core
to the next convective zone there
bubbles of hot plasma float upward
and end up at the sun's surface that's
where a visible
300 mile thick layer starts this
gassy zone and don't i know about gas is
called the photosphere
it gets heated to 10 000 degrees and
consists of granules
cells of plasma 600 miles in diameter
each moving further we get to the crown
that's the star's thin atmosphere it's
getting hotter again
with temperatures reaching three and a
half million degrees
so it better not linger
the smallest of all the four inner
planets mercury is just
three thousand miles at the equator it's
also
the second densest planet topped only by
earth
mercury has a massive metallic core it
takes up almost
85 percent of the planet's volume its
core
contains more iron than any other planet
of the solar system
recently it's been discovered mercury
might have a solid inner core
along with its outer core that consists
of liquid metal
the planet's outer shell is composed of
a rocky mantle
and solid crust which is just 250 miles
thick
mercury is too small to hold onto its
atmosphere made up of hydrogen and
helium
the planet is also too close to the sun
that's why the solar winds keep sweeping
away the little atmosphere the planet
manages to gather
our next stop is the hottest planet in
the solar system
with average temperatures reaching 870
degrees fahrenheit
it means lead would melt if you brought
it to venus
the pressure on the planet's surface is
the same as at a depth of 3000 feet
under water on earth
the planet's metallic iron core is 2
400 miles wide which is almost as the
distance from new york to los
angeles the next layer is a molten rocky
mantle
that's 1200 miles thick the venus's
insides are covered with a crust
it consists mostly of basalt and is 6 to
12 miles wide
the planet's thick atmosphere is
nightmarish
it's 96 of carbon dioxide with three
percent of nitrogen
and thick clouds of sulfuric acid
now on earth people are used to a
beautiful sunset that's painted in hues
of orange red and yellow
on mars however the normally pinkish red
sky
turns blue as the sun goes down under
the horizon
it's because mars is much farther away
from the sun than earth
making the sunlight less intense the
fine dust in the martian atmosphere
absorbs the blue light and gets rid of
the warmer colors that you typically see
on earth
whether it's blue or yellow both sunsets
look spectacular
humans have been exploring space for
over 60 years
and the effort has certainly paid off
all the planets in our solar system have
now been explored
even the dwarf planets of pluto and
cirrus
most of the exploration was done by
nasa's voyager program
which began in 1977 voyager 1 and 2
collected information on the planets
their moons and their unique system of
rings and magnetic fields
these twin spacecraft continue to send
data back to earth
and voyager 1 is currently in
interstellar space
in 2011 astronomers discovered an
enormous
water reservoir simply floating in space
around a supermassive black hole called
a quasar
floating water vapors have been found
throughout the universe
but they aren't that common this
particular reservoir
holds around 140 trillion times the
amount of water in earth's oceans
it's one of the oldest largest and at
more than 12 billion light years away
it's the farthest known to humankind
on earth sound waves make air molecules
vibrate
which is why we're able to hear sound
other planets and moons allow sound to
travel through mediums like their
atmospheres and oceans too
in space though it's said that there is
no sound
since there aren't any molecules to
vibrate and deliver sound waves
however not all researchers agree on
this
given that space isn't just a desolate
vacuum
in between the emptiness there are
clouds of gas and other stray particles
so depending on where you are sound
waves can be possible
discovered in 2017 celt 9b
is the hottest planet we know of next
time you're complaining about the heat
on a scorching summer day
just remember that temperatures on this
planet can reach 7
800 degrees fahrenheit that's because
kelp 9b
orbits really close to its star which is
called celt9
this thing is way hotter and bigger than
our side
experts believe that the giant star
might someday evaporate the entire
planet with its intense heat
kind of a sizzling solar sauna wouldn't
you say
you wouldn't okay
one moon day is equal to about 29 days
on earth
it takes that long for the sun to cross
the lunar sky
people always see the same side of the
moon the earth's gravitational field
makes the moon spin around its axis
slower
that's why it takes the moon the same
time to rotate around its axis
as to orbit around the earth
it was only in 1959 that people could
finally see the other side of the moon
thanks to a photo taken by the russian
spacecraft luna 3.
the other side of the moon is more
mountainous than the one we see from
earth
it can be explained by the earth's
gravity which made the crust on the
visible side of the moon
thinner craters on the moon were left by
asteroids
4.1 to 3.8 billion years ago
they're still visible only because
geological changes on the moon
aren't as active as on earth